<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIV: The Story of a Crime</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">The Story of a Crime</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Dallas shrugged his shoulders indifferently. Truth to tell he was both annoyed and disappointed. He had looked forward with every assurance to laying his hand on the actual culprit in the person of Cooney. As it was now, the whole thing looked like beginning all over again. A suspicion of the real truth was dawning on his mind. “It was like this,” Cooney said, in a harsh, strained voice. “I have been pretty short of a job for some time, and I promised to pay for a lot of furniture I bought for my house by a given time. I had the stuff on the hire-purchase system, and I knew precious well what would happen if I did not keep the instalments up. I had only a day or two to spare, and I was getting pretty anxious. That same evening I met Stevens in a public house. I hadn’t seen him for some time, and, naturally enough, I asked him what he had been doing. Then he told me that on behalf of a party, whose name he didn’t mention, he had been shadowing a certain house in Fitzjohn Square. I wasn’t particularly interested until he let out that he could tell me a good deal about the houses there, and how some of them would be easy work for the likes of a chap such as me, for instance. Then I asks a few questions, and hears all about <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay’s studio. Thinks I to myself, here’s a bit of luck for you, Jim Cooney. I had all the information I wanted. The next night I goes round and has a look at the studio. The thing was as easy as eating your dinner. I waited till it got pretty late, and then I got into the house from the back. When I did get there, I was rather alarmed to see a light in the studio. I crept along to the door, and looked in. You can imagine my surprise when I saw a gentleman painting there. When I looked at him again I had no difficulty in recognising Lord Ravenspur.</p>
			<p>“What he was doing there, I don’t know. But seeing it wasn’t his own house, I reckoned he wasn’t likely to stay long, so I just sat down to wait patiently for such a time as I could have the place to myself. It wasn’t more than an hour before I heard the door open, and two other people came in. They were a lady and a gentleman, but who the lady was I don’t know from Adam. The gentleman, as you will guess, was <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay himself. I suppose the lady was really <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay, too; I mean, the woman who is suspected of the murder. But I am getting a bit away from the point. I had hardly time to hide myself behind a recess with a curtain in front of it before the newcomers came into the hall and began to talk. They were conversing more or less in whispers, so that I could not follow very well, but I could see that they were annoyed to find Lord Ravenspur there, and they were casting about for some means of getting rid of him. Presently the lady said something about the light and the cable, and the gentleman seemed to fall in with her suggestion. Anyway, I saw him take a knife from his pocket, and go down into the basement. A moment later the whole place was plunged in darkness⁠—”</p>
			<p>“You mean that the cable was cut?” Dallas asked. “Well, I am glad that mystery is cleared up. I am bound to tell you, gentlemen, that that cut cable has caused me no end of trouble. It started me on a dozen, more or less impossible, theories. I see exactly what happened now. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay and his companion doubtless thought that if they cut off the light, they would get rid of Lord Ravenspur.”</p>
			<p>“That is exactly what they did,” Cooney resumed. “I heard his lordship fussing about, and trying the electric switches, but he gave it up as a bad job, and after a bit left the house. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay appeared presently from somewhere, with a lamp, which he carried into the studio, and the lady followed him. I was close enough at hand to see what took place. The lady had come, evidently for some valuable jewelry, for <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay produced a case from a safe, and handed it over to her. My word, but those stones did sparkle! It seemed to me that I was in luck that night. My game obviously was to take no further heed of the studio, but to follow the lady as soon as she left the house. It was nearly two o’clock in the morning, and there wasn’t a soul about. In my mind’s eye I saw those stones already in my pocket. But, unfortunately for me, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay walked with his visitor as far as the front gate, and stood looking up the road until the lady was safe in a hansom. It was as much as I could do to get back to the house again without being discovered, but I managed it all right. There were several valuable articles I had marked down, and directly <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay was back in the studio I began to gather them together. I dropped one trinket, which tinkled on the floor, and my heart was in my mouth. I thought that the sound didn’t reach the ears of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay. But I was mistaken. A minute or two later I heard him coming, and I bolted through the window into the garden. I waited there perhaps for an hour before it seemed safe for me to go back, and then I went. I turned on the light.⁠ ⁠… My heart was fair in my mouth. Then I looked down at the floor. There lay <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay as dead as a rabbit. I believe I howled for a moment, I was taken to! But there he lay, and there was his watch-chain a-shining in the light, and then it comes into my head that, if I’d got pluck enough, here was a way to pay for them sticks of furniture of mine. It was hard work, but I managed to screw myself up to it at last. After all said and done, I’d only come here to take what I could get, and it wasn’t me that knifed the poor gentleman. Besides, he might have died a natural death for all I knew. There was no sign of blood about, and nothing that suggested violence. All the same, I couldn’t go through it again if you offered me ten thousand of the best.”</p>
			<p>Cooney paused and shuddered. Great beads of perspiration poured down his face. Then he resumed once more.</p>
			<p>“Well, he was dead, and there was an end of it. Just for the moment I wasn’t thinking about much besides my little happy home. I pocketed all the valuables I could lay my hands upon, and carried them away. You may say that that was a mad thing to do, but after I saw <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Delahay lying dead at my feet, it seemed to me as if he wasn’t likely to miss ’em. Oh, I know as I stand in what the papers call a serious position. But that’s the gospel truth, and I can’t tell you any more. It seems to me I have said enough. And now, if you will call a cab, sir, I am ready for you.”</p>
			<p>A cab was called, and Dallas drove off in the direction of Bow Street with his prisoner. He stopped just a moment to exchange a few words with Lance and Venables.</p>
			<p>“There is no reason why <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay should not know this just yet?” Walter asked. “You may be sure that she feels her position keenly. Would there be any objection to getting her to accompany us as far as Cannon Green tonight? You will understand why.”</p>
			<p>“None at all,” Dallas said. “I’ll send a message to the man who is watching outside the Grand Hotel, and let him know that his presence there is needed no longer. All the same, we have still got to find the culprit. It isn’t Cooney. He told us the truth, I’m certain. The culprit is at Cannon Green! What a fool I’ve been!”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay received her visitors in a dull, apathetic way, which had never left her since the night of the tragedy. But her face cleared, and her manner became more soft and gentle as she listened to the story which Walter had to tell. She dropped into a chair, and for some moments the tears ran unrestrainedly down her cheeks. She wiped her eyes presently. There was something like a smile on her lips as she turned to Walter.</p>
			<p>“I believe those tears saved my reason,” she said. “I have not been able to cry. I have not been able to feel the last few days. The death of my husband was bad enough. The knowledge that I was suspected of his murder was worse, but the feeling that my own sister possibly had a hand in the tragedy was worse than all the rest. There are one or two matters to be explained yet, but the great truth is growing plain, and I feel like a living being once more. Oh, yes; I will come down to Cannon Green with you; I am looking forward to it with something like pleasure. I know that when I have seen my sister everything will be cleared up.”</p>
			<p>It was a different woman who came down from her room half an hour later, ready for the journey. She looked sad and pathetic enough in her deep mourning. The trouble still brooded in her eyes, but the look of stony despair was no longer there. They came at length to the house on the common. The windows were lighted up, the hall looked comfortable and cheery.</p>
			<p>In the drawing-room were the Countess Flavio and Vera. They rose as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay entered.</p>
			<p>“I have brought your sister,” Walter explained briefly. “She has much to say to you. Perhaps I had better leave you alone.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
