<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX: Valdo in a New Light</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Valdo in a New Light</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>“How did you know my husband was in England?” Maria asked.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t,” the Countess confessed. “I looked for him all over the Continent. I should have written to him, only I had mislaid his card, which I found at length after a long search. Seeing that the address was Fitzjohn Square, I thought I would come and interview <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Delahay. It was quite late at night that I found that he was staying at the Grand Hotel, and as things were very pressing indeed, I sent him an express letter asking for an interview early in the morning. In response I received a telegram saying that he would see me at once, and if I could manage to be at the corner of Fitzjohn Square at one o’clock in the morning. I told you just now that things were very urgent, because I had taken this house furnished, and I had already had one or two unpleasant interviews with the landlord, who naturally wanted his money. The telegram seemed to be reasonable enough. Artists are very late people, and, besides, it occurred to me that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Delahay had probably had those jewels in his house. At any rate, I met him. You can imagine how astonished he was when he saw my face. Of course, he naturally concluded that I was your sister, but he seemed to think that you had told him that I was dead. I suppose that was so.”</p>
			<p>“Certainly it was,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay said. “I was definitely told that you were dead. And when I related our unhappy story to my husband, I always spoke of you as one who was no more.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; I quite see. Well, we went along very pleasantly together to the house, and it seemed to me that all I had to do was to get those jewels and come and call upon you. Naturally, I had not heard of you for years. Indeed, I regarded you as dead, much the same as you were under the impression that I no longer lived. But when we reached the studio, a light was burning there, and, looking in, I saw a man painting, a handsome man whom your husband told me was Lord Ravenspur. You can imagine that neither of us wanted to be seen. There was no occasion to raise any doubts in the intruder’s mind, and so we waited till he was gone. Then my case of jewels was handed over to me, and I came straight back here. Not till late the next afternoon did I know what had happened.”</p>
			<p>“Then there is nothing more you can tell me?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay asked.</p>
			<p>“I am sorry to say there is not. But since you have been here certain suspicions have begun to grow in my mind which fill me with dread. It would not be fair to utter them yet, until I am more certain of my facts. Still, I am glad you have come now, because I think you will be of assistance to me. You heard me speak just now of Luigi Silva, but, of course, you will remember him perfectly well?”</p>
			<p>“I recollect him,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay said. “A queer-tempered man, with strange and wayward moods, but he was sincerely attached to us. I should like to see him again.”</p>
			<p>“You <em>shall</em> see him,” the Countess said. “And if you have half an hour to spare it shall be this very night. When I discovered that my daughter had been stolen I got in touch with Silva, who, as I told you just now, was under the impression that I had taken Vera away and placed her in safe custody, lest the authorities should interfere and remove her from my influence. When he found that I had barely given Vera a thought all these years, he was furiously angry with me. Indeed, his rage knew no bounds. He had always been so faithful; he had always worked so hard for me, that I was astounded. He refused to have any more to do with me. He went off without leaving his address, and for some little time I have been searching for him in vain. Quite by accident I found him the other night. He seems to have turned his athletic powers to advantage, for he is performing in London now as a kind of flying man. I have seen the performance, and it is exceedingly clever. But that isn’t what I want to talk to you about. I know where Silva, or Valdo, as he now calls himself, is to be met with. Within a few moments I want you to come along and add your persuasion to mine.”</p>
			<p>“I will do anything you like,” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay said; “anything to get to the bottom of this singular mystery.”</p>
			<p>The Countess started up at once, and proceeded to don her hat and cloak. Then she led the way to the back of the house.</p>
			<p>“There is a way out here,” she said, “which leads into a lane. Now, come along. We have not very far to go.”</p>
			<p>They turned out of the lane presently into a quiet, secluded thoroughfare, where the Countess stopped. They had not long to wait, for presently two figures came down the road, talking earnestly together. The light was not good, but it was quite sufficient to show <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay that one of the men was James Stevens.</p>
			<p>“The witness, Stevens,” she whispered. “He must not see us together. There are many reasons why it is inadvisable that he should learn the truth. The other man looks like Silva; only it is difficult to be sure after all these years. Let me stand in this doorway till you have managed to get rid of Stevens.”</p>
			<p>The Countess nodded her approval, and Maria Delahay slipped into the shadow of the door. From where she stood it was quite possible to see what was going on. She saw her sister approach the two men. She did not fail to note Stevens start as he recognised, or thought he recognised, the woman who was known to him as Maria Delahay. On the still air she could catch a word or two.</p>
			<p>“Very well,” she heard Silva say sullenly. “I have one or two things to say to my friend here, and then I’ll come back to you.”</p>
			<p>The two men came past where the woman was standing in the doorway. They were conversing in deep whispers, so that the listener could catch only a word or two, yet those words filled her with vague apprehension. She caught the name of Ravenspur as it came hissing from Silva’s lips. Then there was something she could not follow, and, finally, clearly enunciated the one word “tonight.” A moment later and Stevens was shuffling off down the street, while Silva returned to Countess Flavio. As <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay joined them, the little Italian glanced from one to the other.</p>
			<p>“So you are both here,” he said.</p>
			<p>There was something in the insolence of his manner that moved <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay to anger.</p>
			<p>“I should hardly have known you,” she said; “certainly I should not have known you from the tone in which you are addressing us. Have you quite forgotten what you owe to your late master’s children?”</p>
			<p>“I have forgotten nothing,” Silva said. “Why do you come here persecuting me like this? Why cannot you let me alone? But for me your sister would have been in a dishonoured grave by now. I saved her life. I saved the good name of the family. And how am I repaid? What does she care so long as she saves herself. And yet I remember her a sweet and innocent child, just as I remember her own little one. Ah, I was fond of her, and she was fond of me. I could never have gone off and hidden myself, and left little Vera to the tender mercies of the world. I, a man, no relation, couldn’t have done that. But that her mother could have done such a thing⁠—ah, it seems unnatural, unwomanly.”</p>
			<p>“You will find her for me?” the Countess said timidly.</p>
			<p>“I have found her,” Silva whispered fiercely. “But whether I have found her for you or not is quite another matter. I was your good friend once. I was your devoted slave and servant. I would have laid down my life for you both, and you know it. But all that I felt for you was as nothing compared to my love for your little one. And when you told me that you had left her without another thought, my blood fairly boiled with passion. I thought you had taken her with you. I fondly imagined that you were devoting the rest of your life to her welfare and happiness. And then, one day, you come coolly to me and ask me where you can find your child. You go your own way, and leave me to go mine. I suppose you have found out that I come this way home, and so have waylaid me. But you will never get me to raise a finger on your behalf again. Still, it does not much matter. I know where the child is. I shall know how to act when the time comes. My vengeance is ready, when I care to stretch out my hand to take it.”</p>
			<p>The words poured from the speaker’s lips in a torrent of passionate vehemence. He fairly quivered with rage. He seemed to be beside himself with anger. There was something almost akin to madness in his eyes.</p>
			<p>“Oh, calm yourself,” the Countess said. “My good Silva, I make every allowance for your feelings, but you are going altogether too far. You, above all men, ought to know how I longed to get away from anything that reminded me of my husband. Don’t forget that she was his child as well as mine, and that she had her father’s eyes and charm of expression. Besides, I was barely responsible for my actions then. Consider what I had had to go through. Consider my mental torture and degradation. And yet you say it was my duty day by day to watch my child and see the hateful pleasantness of her father’s smile looking at me from behind her innocent features. Oh, I couldn’t do it. I tried to persuade myself that it was my duty, but all to no avail. I was in such a state of nervous exhaustion then, so near the borderland of insanity, that I believe I should have taken the life of the child if she had gone with me. And, naturally, I thought that she was with friends. I knew that you would see that she was all right. And, in addition to all this, she was her father’s heiress.”</p>
			<p>“But who was interested in taking her away?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay asked. “I don’t see how anybody could gain anything by saddling themselves with a child like that.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
