<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>An Unexpected Friend.</h2>
			<p>Outside in the garden, under cover of the darkness, Ravenspur and his companion waited anxiously for a sign from Walter. The minutes crept slowly on. Still there was nothing to break the silence. A quarter of an hour passed, and at length Ravenspur began to feel decidedly anxious.</p>
			<p>“I don’t like it,” he murmured; “I don’t like it a bit. We have an exceedingly cunning scoundrel to deal with, and a bloodthirsty one into the bargain. That man would not stick at anything. I can’t understand how it is that Walter doesn’t open the door.”</p>
			<p>Venables made no reply. As a matter of fact, he was not a whit less anxious than Ravenspur. Still the minutes crept on, and still there was no sign from the interior of the house. Then at last came a faint, dull report, which might either have been the closing of a door, or the muffled echo of a pistol shot. Before Venables could reply he felt something damp and cold against his hand. His nerves were now at high tension. He jumped quickly back, and looked down. A great hound stood there waving his long tail from side to side and looking up into Ravenspur’s face as if not altogether sure as to his presence being welcome.</p>
			<p>“Call him off,” Venables said excitedly. “The brute is dangerous. By Jove, what a fool I am! I thought at first that this was one of our friend Valdo’s bodyguard, but I see now that it is your dog, Lord Ravenspur. I suppose he has managed to get away again.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, it’s Bruno right enough,” Ravenspur said. “Probably Perks fastened him up insecurely. But he must not be allowed to roam about here. Do you happen to have a dog collar and chain in your pocket, Perks? If so, I’ll go and chain him up to one of those trees by the side of the lane.”</p>
			<p>Perks grinned, and produced the necessary collar and lead. In the course of his business he rarely travelled without one of these, though he looked dubiously at the leather strap, and opined that is was not much good for so great a beast as Bruno.</p>
			<p>“I think that will be all right,” Lord Ravenspur said. “The dog is well trained, and if I tell him to stop there I am sure he will. At any rate, I don’t suppose he will move until we have this business finished. Now, come along, sir.”</p>
			<p>The great beast trotted along, more or less dejectedly, by his master’s side, and a moment or two later he was lying at the foot of a small tree just by the gate leading to the lane. Ravenspur hurried back to his companions. He had hoped by this time that something had happened. He was seriously alarmed to find the house still in darkness, and no sign of Walter anywhere.</p>
			<p>“This is very disturbing,” he said. “Don’t you think one of you had better go inside and see what has become of my nephew? If that man there has done him any violence⁠—”</p>
			<p>“I don’t think so,” Venables interrupted. “After all, the man we are looking for is no fool, and he would most assuredly avoid violence if possible. My dear Lord Ravenspur, you surely did not expect to find Miss Rayne by simply opening the door and going through the house? For my part, I regard this business as only just beginning, and I shall be very much surprised if Miss Rayne is in the house at all. Besides, this man Valdo is certain to be prepared for emergencies of this kind. Suppose he found Walter, and asked him what he was doing there? Suppose he insisted upon showing him all over the house? We will assume that he has proved to Lance that Miss Rayne is not there. He would enjoy that immensely. It would give him far more pleasure than any personal violence. And besides, Walter is quite capable of taking care of himself. Really, we must risk it a little longer. Any undue haste now would ruin our plans.”</p>
			<p>Sorely against his convictions Ravenspur allowed the point to pass. A quarter of an hour had elapsed now, and there was no sign of Walter. Ravenspur was about to speak again when suddenly from the lane came something in the way of a diversion. A man’s voice was raised in terror, a frightened scream for help rent the air. As the cry died away, a deep growl of the dog was heard. Without a moment’s hesitation Ravenspur rushed away down the garden and in the direction of the lane.</p>
			<p>“There’s no time to be lost,” he cried. “Come along. Unless I am greatly mistaken, Bruno has got hold of some unfortunate wayfarer on his way home.”</p>
			<p>It turned out to be exactly as Lord Ravenspur had prophesied. When Perks came up, and turned his lantern on the scene, the outline of a man’s body came into view. The unfortunate individual was lying on his back, the great hound was standing over him, his crest erect, his formidable row of teeth glistening in the light. At one word from lord Ravenspur the dog crouched down, and the stranger, trembling with fright in every limb, was dragged to his feet. Something like a chuckle burst from Perks’ lips.</p>
			<p>“You seem to be enjoying yourself, John,” he said.</p>
			<p>“I thought the brute was going to tear the throat out of me,” the stranger said. “I came down here on business⁠—”</p>
			<p>“What business?” Venables said curtly. “Here, Perks, hold that light a bit higher up so that I can see the fellow’s face. Does he happen to be a friend of yours?”</p>
			<p>“We’ve done a bit of business together,” Perks said significantly. “Otherwise, he is not what I would call a friend of mine. He was over at my place early this morning, but I thought he had gone back to town again. What are you looking about here for, John?”</p>
			<p>“That’s my business,” the other said sullenly. “The man who fastened that dog up there so close to the lane ought to have six months. I don’t know who he belongs to.”</p>
			<p>“He belongs to me,” Lord Ravenspur explained. “There is one thing I will vouch for⁠—if you hadn’t been coming into the garden, that dog would never have touched you. It is no business of mine to ask what you are doing here, for I don’t suppose you would tell me if I did. However, it seems to me⁠—”</p>
			<p>“No; but I can tell you,” Venables put in. “This, Lord Ravenspur, is the man John Stevens who gave evidence at the inquest on Louis Delahay. He was the man who saw Mrs. Delahay with her husband in Fitzjohn Square that morning. He knows Valdo exceedingly well, and no doubt he is down here on the latter’s business. If you ask him, he will hardly venture to deny it.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know what you are talking about,” Stevens stammered.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, you do,” Venables went on. “You will say presently that you have never seen me before. You are a treacherous rascal, and evidently you are not in the least to be relied upon. I told you that it would pay you to join me, and I suppose your idea is to get money from both parties. This is no time to waste on incriminations. This man is a spy of Valdo’s, Lord Ravenspur. Evidently he is here to watch our movements. We can’t trust him. We can’t let him out of our sight. The question is, what are we going to do with him?”</p>
			<p>“You just leave me alone or it will be the worse for you,” Stevens blustered. “I am not the man⁠—”</p>
			<p>Before Stevens could finish his speech he was jerked violently backwards by Perks, and turned over on his face. In less time than it takes to tell, his hands were bound behind his back with a couple of straps, and his feet were fastened together with the aid of some handkerchiefs which Perks borrowed from his companion. The thing was dexterously done, so that Stevens lay there on his back, swearing hotly at Perks, and threatening him with what was likely to happen when his time came.</p>
			<p>“Oh, that’s all right,” Perks said cheerfully; “don’t you be a fool, John. It will pay you much better to play the square game with these gentlemen, and as to your threats, why, they don’t worry me. You talk about splitting. Why, you dare not go within a mile of a police station. And a nice witness before magistrates you would make. No, my lad; there is no chance of your doing me any harm unless you are prepared to stand in the dock by my side. Now, come along, and we’ll get it over.”</p>
			<p>“What are you going to do with him?” Ravenspur asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, that is an easy one,” Perks grinned cheerfully. “We’ll just carry him as far as the common, and dump him down on a nice bed of bracken where he can pass the time studying astronomy. I haven’t any fear that he can get rid of these bandages. When everything is settled, I’ll come back and fetch him. Then I can take him home, and give him some breakfast. He won’t bear any malice. That is a very good point about John Stevens: he never bears malice for long. As a matter of fact, he ain’t got pluck enough.”</p>
			<p>Stevens was dumped unceremoniously down upon the bracken, and the little party went back to the house. Lord Ravenspur had forgotten all about Walter for the moment. His mind had reverted to the murder in Fitzjohn Square. He was thinking of Delahay and certain fresh facts which had recently come to light. He allowed Venables to precede him. Then he drew Perks aside for a moment.</p>
			<p>“I am going to ask you a question,” he said, “and I hope you will answer it straightforwardly. I will see that no harm comes to you. And, indeed, in any case it will be to your advantage to be candid. Have you had any dealings lately with this man Stevens? You know what I mean. Have you bought anything from him for which you paid without asking any questions?”</p>
			<p>“Only this very morning, sir,” Perks admitted cheerfully. “To tell you the truth, that little thing what you gave me a sovereign for was amongst the lot. And now I have said it. I am a fool to tell you this, but you gave me your word, sir⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That is all right,” Ravenspur said. “I shall keep it.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
