<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XL: Broken Wings</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Broken Wings</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>The hoarse yell for assistance rose yet again, this time more feeble than before. It was horrible to stand there in the darkness, looking helplessly around and trying to locate the direction from which the call came. It was horrible, too, to listen to the mumbling and snarling of the dog, just as if he were worrying a bone. Vera clung terrified to Lord Ravenspur. It was in vain that the latter whistled and called to the dog.</p>
			<p>“We must have a light here,” he said hoarsely. “There is no other way of discovering where the trouble lies. Fool that I was not to think of it before. That man, Perks, has a lantern.”</p>
			<p>Ravenspur strode back to the house again, and yelled aloud for Perks and his lantern.</p>
			<p>“What is wrong?” Venables demanded.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you’ll see soon enough,” Ravenspur said grimly. “For heaven’s sake, bring Perks here with the lantern. Unless I am greatly mistaken, our troubles are over as far as the Italian is concerned. Bruno has got hold of him.”</p>
			<p>They all raced together down the garden path in the direction of the gate. There was no mistaking where the trouble lay, for that mumbling snarl was close at hand now. It seemed to proceed from the foot of a tree. Even Perks, hardened as he was, shuddered and turned pale as the shining disc of the lantern showed a picture so horrible and revolting that Perks staggered back.</p>
			<p>“Take the young lady away sir,” he said. “This is no place for her. You go back to the house, and leave Lord Ravenspur to carry this poor chap back again. We can’t tackle the dog unless there is someone here who knows him.”</p>
			<p>One glance at the prostrate body, and Venables turned away without further question. Obviously Perks was right, and assuredly it was no place for Vera. Silva lay there on the broad of his back, his arms thrown out, and crouched upon his body was the enormous weight of the dog. The pressure in itself was enough to cause suffocation. But the mischief lay in the terrible gash in the throat where the hound’s teeth had met. Bruno crouched there now with evil, bloodshot eyes; a long, deep terrifying growl came steadily and persistently. Perks drew cautiously near.</p>
			<p>“Well, if this doesn’t beat everything,” he said. “Why, there are two bodies. One of them is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lance.”</p>
			<p>“That is the cause of all the mischief, as you will see presently,” Ravenspur explained. “Never mind about my nephew for a moment. Unless I am greatly mistaken, there is very little the matter with him. But this poor fellow is in a different condition altogether.”</p>
			<p>As he spoke, Ravenspur stepped forward, and gave Bruno a tremendous blow with a stick which he had pulled from the hedge-side. At the same time he uttered a few words in a harsh tone, and immediately the dog slunk away and crossed the road. His tail was between his legs now, his attitude one of deep dejection.</p>
			<p>“I will deal with him presently,” Ravenspur went on. “You take the head, and I’ll take the feet, and we’ll get this poor fellow back to the house again. It is a terrible business altogether, but, mind you, that dog is not very much to blame. As far as I can make out, what has happened is this: Silva managed to drug my nephew, and was getting his body out of the way when he accidentally came in contact with the dog. And if there is one human being more than another to whom Bruno is devoted, that person is my nephew. The dog would scent him at once, and⁠—well, the rest you can imagine.”</p>
			<p>They conveyed the unconscious body of Silva upstairs, and laid him on a bed. Once Walter had been brought under cover also, there was only one thing to be done, and that was to send for a doctor without delay. It was obvious enough to Ravenspur and his companions that Silva’s wounds were exceedingly critical. The throat seemed to be almost bitten away. The man had lost a deal of blood. He lay there absolutely unconscious. His swarthy features were deadly pale. It was impossible to say whether he breathed or not.</p>
			<p>“You leave the doctor to me,” Perks said. “I know the neighbourhood. I can be back here well within the hour.”</p>
			<p>The doctor came at length. He shook his head seriously after he had made his examination.</p>
			<p>“Oh, of course, recovery is possible,” he said; “whilst there is life there is always hope. But if this man pulls round it will be little less than a miracle. How did it happen?”</p>
			<p>There was nothing for it but to explain. After all, it would be more or less impossible to avoid the scandal now. But nothing was said as to the real cause of the accident, nor did Ravenspur deem it prudent to ask the doctor’s advice as to the best thing to do with Walter.</p>
			<p>“Will the poor fellow recover consciousness?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“That is quite possible,” the doctor replied. “He has a splendid constitution, and possibly may linger on for some days. He can take no direct nourishment, of course. But medical science can do so much nowadays in the way of injections. I shouldn’t be at all surprised if my patient were able to give an account of what has happened. But in all human probability, he will be in his grave before the week is out. And now, will you leave it to me to obtain a nurse, or would you like to send one of your own?”</p>
			<p>On the whole, it would be better to leave it to the doctor, Ravenspur thought. An hour or so passed, and the nurse was established in the sickroom. It was now getting towards daylight, but no one thought of rest or sleep. There was nothing for it but to make the best of the extraordinary situation; nothing for it but to remain where they were and explain as well as they could to the servants when they came back in the morning. Vera flung herself down upon a couch in the drawing-room, and closed her eyes. She was tired and worn out, though it seemed to her that sleep was impossible. Nevertheless, when she came to herself again the sunshine was streaming into the room, the birds were singing noisily in the trees outside. On the lawn Ravenspur was walking up and down in grave consultation with Venables. Presently Vera saw Walter join the group. He looked dreadfully white and haggard; his head was bent, and his step was shaky. A thrill of thankfulness passed over her. She had never hoped to see him walk again. As Vera left the drawing-room and crossed the hall, a maidservant looked at her curiously. Vera advanced with a smile.</p>
			<p>“I am afraid we have greatly distressed you,” she said. “But perhaps you already know exactly what has happened?”</p>
			<p>“His lordship explained to me, miss,” the girl said timidly. “I understand that my new master is a friend of yours. You were coming down to see him, and a great dog attacked him.”</p>
			<p>“Yes; that is so,” Vera said, relieved to find that she had to make no prevarication. “And now, if you will be so good, you might show me to a bedroom where I can wash.”</p>
			<p>The maid seemed to anticipate such a request, for she led the way up the stairs to one of the bedrooms. Vera wondered what the maid would have said could she only have looked into the room at the top of the house under the roof. Feeling much fresher and brighter from the touch of cold water, Vera went down and joined the other two in the garden.</p>
			<p>“I am glad to see you looking none the worse for your adventure,” Ravenspur said. “I have managed to convince the servants that our appearance here is quite natural. One had to tell a few falsehoods, but in the circumstances it was necessary. Still, servants are suspicious creatures, and I don’t want their curiosity to go too far. Already they are wondering where the mistress of the house is, so that there is no help for it, and we must have your mother here without delay. Do you happen to know her London address?”</p>
			<p>“No; I don’t,” Vera replied. “I saw her for an hour last night.”</p>
			<p>“What, down here?” Walter exclaimed.</p>
			<p>“Yes; she came here on purpose to see me. She only stayed a little time, because I understood that it was necessary for her to be back in London again. But I would rather not talk about that if you don’t mind. You will quite understand why.”</p>
			<p>Walter murmured something in reply. Then his face brightened.</p>
			<p>“You are quite right, uncle,” he said. “It is absolutely necessary that the Countess Flavio should be here at once. We can get her address from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Delahay. If you like I will go up myself.”</p>
			<p>“Do you feel equal to it?” Vera asked anxiously.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m all right now,” Walter said, “with the exception of a certain shakiness and a splitting headache. It must have been a pretty severe dose that our interesting friend gave me last night. But I don’t think there is any occasion to worry about me.”</p>
			<p>“Then we will have some breakfast, and get up to London at once,” Venables said, in his quick, decisive fashion. “We can leave Lord Ravenspur and Miss Rayne here till we come back. I don’t think that Lord Ravenspur has anything to fear from his enemy now.”</p>
			<p>Breakfast was despatched without delay, and immediately Venables and Walter left for London. The house was now quiet and still, for as yet practically nothing was known as to the cause of Silva’s action, and public curiosity still slept.</p>
			<p>It was some time after luncheon before Vera had a chance of speaking to the nurse, with an inquiry as to how the patient was getting on. The nurse smiled in reply.</p>
			<p>“He is slightly better,” she explained; “in fact, he is as well as he is likely to be. He has been conscious for the last half hour. He seems to want something, only I can’t understand what it is. We may be able to find out when the doctor comes.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
