<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXV: Bred in the Bone</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-25" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Bred in the Bone</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Meanwhile, Walter Lance had lost no time in reaching the studio. It did not need any elaborate explanation on the part of Maria Delahay for him to know that, in some way, the danger came from the man whom he knew as Valdo. Walter did not doubt that this was not the first time that the Corsican had visited the studio, though, as yet, he was utterly unable to grasp how it was that the attempt had been so successful.</p>
			<p>There was danger here, and Walter knew it perfectly well, but he was too filled with indignation to think of anything else. So far as he could see, nothing had as yet taken place. The studio was absolutely empty, and the full blaze of the electric lights disclosed no danger.</p>
			<p>Watching eyes were probably not far off, and it behooved Walter to be circumspect. He whistled an air. He strolled from place to place, ever and again glancing upwards to the roof. He felt quite convinced that it was the roof from which danger threatened, but there was nothing to be seen, no sign of movement in the branches of the acacia.</p>
			<p>Still, the miscreant must be near at hand. He might even be watching the solitary occupant of the studio at that moment. Walter made up his mind what to do. He switched off all the lights and shut the door of the studio, at the same time affecting to turn the key in the lock. If Valdo were hiding close at hand, he would take this for an indication that the studio was locked and closed for the night.</p>
			<p>This being done, Walter crept back again and took up a position at the foot of an acacia. If Valdo entered the studio at all he was bound to come that way. Doubtless he had made his way over the roof, and presently it would be an easy matter to flutter from the dome on to the top of the acacia. Such a plan as this would present no difficulties to the flying man. Therefore, Walter braced himself for the effort which would be required of him presently.</p>
			<p>He had not much doubt as to the issue. From the point of physical strength he was a match and more than a match for the Italian. There was just the chance that the latter might make use of his knife, but that had to be risked. A quarter of an hour passed slowly, and Walter was beginning to get impatient. What he most feared now was that Lord Ravenspur might return and demand to know why the studio was in darkness. This would probably have the effect of scaring Valdo away, and Walter would have all his trouble for his pains.</p>
			<p>The minutes passed along, and no one came; but at length Walter’s patience was rewarded. He heard a slight swish and sway in the branches of the acacia overhead. He could hear deep and regular breathing coming nearer and nearer to him. Then, presently, in the darkness, he discerned the lithe figure of the Italian. A moment later, and the intruder was caught below the elbows in a grip that made him fairly grunt again. He struggled just for a moment, but the steady grip seemed to crush the life out of him, and he desisted. Walter bore him back until his left hand shot out, and the whole studio was bathed in flame once more. Before Valdo could realise what had really happened, Walter’s hands were all over him in a search for weapons. Nothing more dangerous come to light than a small sheath-knife, which Walter swept into his pocket. He was quite calm and self-possessed now. He coolly indicated a chair, into which Valdo flung himself sullenly.</p>
			<p>“Now I should like to have a little conversation with you,” he said. “You will recollect that we have met before.”</p>
			<p>“I have not forgotten the fact,” Luigi Silva said sullenly. “It was at the Imperial Palace Theatre.”</p>
			<p>“Quite correct,” Walter said. “I came to see that remarkable performance of yours. I was very much interested, and I must congratulate you warmly. At the same time, it seems to me that yours is a dangerous kind of entertainment.”</p>
			<p>A contemptuous smile flickered over Silva’s face. “There is no danger whatever,” he murmured; “anybody could do it if they had arms like mine.”</p>
			<p>“I am afraid you don’t quite take my meaning,” Walter murmured. “There are some cigarettes by your elbow. You had better help yourself, especially as I am likely to detain you some time.”</p>
			<p>With a defiant air the Italian took and lighted a cigarette. He did not appear in the least unnerved, though the furtive glances which he occasionally turned in the direction of his captor showed that his mind was not altogether at ease. He would have given much to know what Lance was driving at. He did not like to see the other quite so sure of his ground.</p>
			<p>“My time is my own,” he said. “Go on.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I beg your pardon, your time is mine. But I dare say you will wonder why I am detaining you like this. To tell you the truth, since your last visit here⁠—”</p>
			<p>“That is not true,” Silva cried. “I have never been here before!”</p>
			<p>“Why play with me?” Walter asked contemptuously. “It is some days since you were here last. To refresh your memory, I am alluding to the night when you came here by way of the ventilator in the dome, and made a murderous attack upon my uncle, who owes his life to the fact that I was not very far away. It is no use your denying this, because I am in a position to prove it. I dare say you congratulated yourself upon the fact that you got clear away. You would chuckle to think how mystified we all were. Here is a murderous onslaught made upon a public man in his own studio, from which there is no exit but the door; and on the night of the strange affair the door was locked. No one but a bird could have escaped through the ventilator. You can picture to yourself what a sensation the business would have caused if the police had been called in and the affair made known to the Press. Now I dare say you wonder why the police were not called in at once?”</p>
			<p>Silva pulled at his cigarette savagely, but made no reply.</p>
			<p>“Well, I am going to be more polite than you are,” Walter said; “and I am going to tell you. I had a fancy to play the detective myself. I looked around for some sort of a clue, and at length I found one. Ah, I see you are interested.”</p>
			<p>“Only in my own safety,” Silva muttered.</p>
			<p>“Well, that is the same thing. On the floor close by where you are seated I found a shabby yellow playbill, advertising the performance of Valdo, the flying man, at the Imperial Palace Theatre. The bill was neatly folded, and was of recent date. Now I know perfectly well that neither Lord Ravenspur nor any of his friends would be interested in that kind of thing. Therefore, how did the bill get here? Probably left by the flying man himself, and a flying man would be the only kind of human being capable of getting in and out of this studio in that mysterious fashion. Upon this, I made up my mind to come and see you, and I did. I have only to place this information, together with my testimony, in the hands of the police. Indeed, I have only to send for a constable now and give you into custody. After that you would not be likely to give us any cause for anxiety the next seven years.”</p>
			<p>The Italian’s eyes gleamed as he glanced restlessly about him. There was no reason for Walter to ask himself if his prisoner understood. Silva shrugged his shoulders.</p>
			<p>“That is what you are going to do?” he asked.</p>
			<p>“Oh, we’ll come to that presently. In the meantime, I want a little information. You will remember when we were talking to you in the manager’s room at the Imperial, a lady came in and addressed a few words to you. She was only there for a moment, but she stayed quite long enough for me to recognise her features. I want to know what <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay needed to see you for.”</p>
			<p>A sharp laugh broke from Silva’s lips.</p>
			<p>“You are very clever,” he sneered. “Oh, so clever. So you are interested in <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay? You think, perhaps, that I know a deal about the murder of her husband. I know less about it than you do, and I have no concern with her at all. You had better ask her. She will probably be astonished⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Ah, I see what you mean,” Walter exclaimed. “It was stupid of me not to grasp the problem sooner. Of course, it was not <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Delahay at all I saw with you, but her sister, Countess Flavio.”</p>
			<p>Something like an oath broke from Silva’s lips.</p>
			<p>“Thank you very much,” Walter said. “You could not tell me any more if you were ever so candid. And now I know exactly what brings you here. It is not robbery⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Robbery!” Silva broke out vehemently. “Sir, your words are a deadly insult. I am an honest man, though I may only be a servant; I would scorn to touch what does not belong to me.”</p>
			<p>“In that case you came here for violence, then,” Walter said. “Yours must be a strangely illogical mind. You would not soil your hands with another man’s money, but you would not hesitate to stab him in the back under cover of the darkness. Come, don’t let us argue any longer. You came here the other night to murder my uncle. But for a fortunate chance, Lord Ravenspur would be in his grave now. It is useless to deny it.”</p>
			<p>“Have I made any attempt to deny it?” Silva said, in a voice that was utterly devoid of passion. “Have I lied to you in any way? Oh, I see there is no mercy in your face, and doubtless if our positions were reversed, I should act as you are acting tonight. You are going to hand me over to the authorities. I shall be no worse treated if I tell the truth. I did come here to take Lord Ravenspur’s life. I am only sorry that I failed.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
